public/walkthroughs/1/walkthrough.adoc, before:

// tag::master-1[]
:walkthrough: Integrating event-driven and API-driven applications (AMQ)
:fuse-version: 7.2


// The ID is used as an anchor for linking to the module. Avoid changing it after the module has been published to ensure existing links are not broken.
[id='integrating-eventdriven-and-apidriven-applications']
// If the assembly is reused in other assemblies in a guide, include {context} in the ID: [id='a-collection-of-modules-{context}'].

// Book Title
= {walkthrough}

//If the assembly covers a task, start the title with a verb in the gerund form, such as Creating or Configuring.
:context: integrating-eventdriven-and-apidriven-applications
// The `context` attribute enables module reuse. Every module's ID includes {context}, which ensures that the module has a unique ID even if it is reused multiple times in a guide.

//include::master-1-intro.adoc[ ]

// word count range that fits best is 15-22, with 20 really being the sweet spot. Character count for that space would be 100-125
Build a simple integration that connects a message queue with an API.

In a multi-application system, you often find:

* communication between the applications can be difficult due to differing technologies
* custom solutions can be difficult to create and maintain
* custom solutions require custom monitoring
* understanding the relationship between the applications requires deep technical insight to the overall architecture

A more structured approach involves:

* a simple integration that developers can understand intuitively
* simple provisioning and configuration
* built-in monitoring

This walkthrough describes how  to create such an integration, using OpenShift, {messaging-service} and API connectors in Fuse.

++++
<img src="/images/wt1.png" class="img-responsive" alt="integration">
++++

// end::master-1[]

[time=5]
[id='integrating-eventdriven-and-apidriven-applications']
[id='creating-connections']
== Creating connections
:context: creating-connections

// tag::creating-api-connector[]

[id='creating-api-connector_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Creating an API Connector 

. Log in to the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console.

. Select *Customizations* from the left hand menu.

. Select the *Create API Connector* button to start the *API Client Connector* wizard.

. When prompted to *Upload OpenAPI Specification*, select *Use a URL*:
.. Enter the following in the URL field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
---- 
http://{spring-boot-url}/v2/api-docs
----

.. Click *Next*.

. When prompted with *Review Actions*, select *Next*.

. When prompted with *Specify Security*, select *Next*.

. When prompted with *Review/Edit Connector Details*:
.. Enter the following in the *Connector Name* field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD Connector
----

.. Click *Create API Connector*.

[type=verification]
Check the *Customizations* screen of the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console to make sure the new connector exists.

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.

// end::creating-api-connector[]

// tag::creating-amqp-connection-in-fuse[]

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// <List assemblies here, each on a new line>

:enmasse: Red Hat AMQ Online

[id='creating-amqp-connection-in-fuse_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Creating AMQP connection in Red Hat Fuse Online

To receive messages from EnMasse, you create a connection in Red Hat Fuse Online.


:fuse-url: https://eval.apps.city.openshiftworkshop.com/
:openshift-url: https://master.city.openshiftworkshop.com/console/project/eval/overview

. Log in to the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console.

. Select *Connections* from the left hand menu.

. Select the *Create Connection* button to start the *Create Connection* wizard.

. Select *AMQP* to configure an *AMQP Message Broker* connection.

. Enter the connection URI relating to {enmasse}:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
amqp://{amq-broker-url}:5672?amqp.saslMechanisms=PLAIN
----

. Enter the username relating to {enmasse}:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
{amq-credentials-username}
----

. Enter the password relating to {enmasse}:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----
{amq-credentials-password}
----

. Set the value of *Check Certificates* to `Disable`.

. Select the *Validate* button to check that the values are valid.

. Click *Next* and enter a name for the connection, for example:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} Messaging App
----

. Click *Create*.


[type=verification]
Check the *Connections* screen of the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console to make sure the new connection exists.


[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.


// end::creating-amqp-connection-in-fuse[]


// tag::creating-http-connection[]

[id='creating-http-connection-in-fuse_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Creating HTTP connection to CRUD App

To send messages to the Spring Boot app, you create a connection in Red Hat Fuse Online.


. Log in to the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console.

. Select *Connections* from the left hand menu.

. Select the *Create Connection* button to start the *Create Connection* wizard.

. When prompted with *Select Connector*, select *Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD Connector*.

. When prompted with *Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD Configuration*, click *Next*.

. When prompted with *Add Connection Details*:
.. Enter the following in the *Connection Name* field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD App
----
.. Click *Create*.


[type=verification]
Check the *Connections* screen of the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console to make sure the new connection exists.

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.


// end::creating-http-connection[]



[time=5]
[id='creating-an-integration']
== Creating an integration
:context: creating-an-integration

// end::task-creating-fuse-integration[]

[id='creating-fuse-integration_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Creating an integration

To use the Fuse connections, you create an integration in Red Hat Fuse Online.

. Select *Integrations* from the left hand menu.

. Select the *Create Integration* button to start the *Create Integration* wizard.

. Choose *Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} Messaging App* as the *Start Connection*.

. When prompted to *Choose an Action*, select *Subscribe for messages*.

. When prompted for a *Destination Name*, enter:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
---- 
work-queue/requests
----

. Choose *Queue* as the *Destination Type* and click *Next*.

. When prompted to *Specify Output Data Type*:
.. Select *JSON Schema* as the type.
.. Enter the following in the *Definition* field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----
{
	"$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-04/schema#",
	"type": "object",
	"properties": {
		"type": {
			"type": "string"
		}
	}
}
----
.. Click *Done*.

. Choose *Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD App* as the *Finish Connection*.

. When prompted to *Choose an Action*, select *Create a fruit*.

. When prompted to *Add to Integration*, select *Add a Step*.

. Select *Data Mapper* to map source and target fields in the corresponding JSON schemas:
.. Click and drag *type* from the *Source* column to *body/name* in the *Target* column.
.. Click *Done* to navigate back to the Integration screen.

. Click *Publish*.
. When prompted, enter a name, for example:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
Walkthrough {walkthrough-id}
----

[type=verification]
Check the *Integrations* screen of the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console to make sure the new connection exists.

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.
// end::task-creating-fuse-integration[]



[time=5]
[id='using-the-application-integration']
== Using the application integration
:context: using-the-application-integration

// tag::task-using-integration[]
[id='using-integration_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Using the application integration

After setting up the integration between the Node.js and Spring Boot applications, we can use the integration to create a new fruit for the grocery inventory application.

:node-url: http://frontend-node-app.apps.city.openshiftworkshop.com/
:spring-url: http://spring-boot-rest-http-crud-spring-app.apps.city.openshiftworkshop.com/
:fuse-url: https://eval.apps.city.openshiftworkshop.com/

. Navigate to the link:http://{node-js-url}[Node.js app, window="_blank"].

. Enter a value for *Fruit*, for example:
+
----  
Pineapple
----

. Click *Send Request*.

. Navigate to the link:http://{spring-boot-url}[Spring Boot app, window="_blank"].

. Check that the entry from the Node.js app is displayed.


[type=verification]
****
View the activity log:

. Log in to the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console.
. Select *Integrations* from the left hand menu.
. Select your integration.
. Select the *Activity* tab.
. Expand the log entry to display the steps performed.
****

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.


// end::task-using-integration[]

Commit message:

fix wt1 to use correct messaging solution

public/walkthroughs/1/walkthrough.adoc, after:

// tag::master-1[]
:walkthrough: Integrating event-driven and API-driven applications (AMQ)
:fuse-version: 7.2


// The ID is used as an anchor for linking to the module. Avoid changing it after the module has been published to ensure existing links are not broken.
[id='integrating-eventdriven-and-apidriven-applications']
// If the assembly is reused in other assemblies in a guide, include {context} in the ID: [id='a-collection-of-modules-{context}'].

// Book Title
= {walkthrough}

//If the assembly covers a task, start the title with a verb in the gerund form, such as Creating or Configuring.
:context: integrating-eventdriven-and-apidriven-applications
// The `context` attribute enables module reuse. Every module's ID includes {context}, which ensures that the module has a unique ID even if it is reused multiple times in a guide.

//include::master-1-intro.adoc[ ]

// word count range that fits best is 15-22, with 20 really being the sweet spot. Character count for that space would be 100-125
Build a simple integration that connects a message queue with an API.

In a multi-application system, you often find:

* communication between the applications can be difficult due to differing technologies
* custom solutions can be difficult to create and maintain
* custom solutions require custom monitoring
* understanding the relationship between the applications requires deep technical insight to the overall architecture

A more structured approach involves:

* a simple integration that developers can understand intuitively
* simple provisioning and configuration
* built-in monitoring

This walkthrough describes how  to create such an integration, using OpenShift, {messaging-service} and API connectors in Fuse.

++++
<img src="/images/wt1.png" class="img-responsive" alt="integration">
++++

// end::master-1[]

[time=5]
[id='integrating-eventdriven-and-apidriven-applications']
[id='creating-connections']
== Creating connections
:context: creating-connections

// tag::creating-api-connector[]

[id='creating-api-connector_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Creating an API Connector 

. Log in to the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console.

. Select *Customizations* from the left hand menu.

. Select the *Create API Connector* button to start the *API Client Connector* wizard.

. When prompted to *Upload OpenAPI Specification*, select *Use a URL*:
.. Enter the following in the URL field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
---- 
http://{spring-boot-url}/v2/api-docs
----

.. Click *Next*.

. When prompted with *Review Actions*, select *Next*.

. When prompted with *Specify Security*, select *Next*.

. When prompted with *Review/Edit Connector Details*:
.. Enter the following in the *Connector Name* field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD Connector
----

.. Click *Create API Connector*.

[type=verification]
Check the *Customizations* screen of the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console to make sure the new connector exists.

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.

// end::creating-api-connector[]

// tag::creating-amq-connection-in-fuse[]

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// <List assemblies here, each on a new line>

:enmasse: Red Hat AMQ Online

[id='creating-amq-connection-in-fuse_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Creating AMQ connection in Red Hat Fuse Online

To receive messages from EnMasse, you create a connection in Red Hat Fuse Online.


:fuse-url: https://eval.apps.city.openshiftworkshop.com/
:openshift-url: https://master.city.openshiftworkshop.com/console/project/eval/overview

. Log in to the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console.

. Select *Connections* from the left hand menu.

. Select the *Create Connection* button to start the *Create Connection* wizard.

. When prompted with *Select Connector*, select *AMQ Message Broker*.

. When prompted with *AMQ Message Broker Configuration*:
.. Enter the following into the *Broker URL* field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
tcp://{messaging-broker-url}:61616
----
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
{amq-credentials-username}
----

.. Enter the password relating to {enmasse}:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----
{amq-credentials-password}
----

.. Select *Disable* from the *Check Certificates* list.
.. Click *Validate*.
.. Click *Next*.

. When prompted for *Add Connection Details*:
.. Enter the following in the *Connection Name* field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} Messaging App
----
.. Click *Create*.


[type=verification]
Check the *Connections* screen of the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console to make sure the new connection exists.


[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.


// end::creating-amqp-connection-in-fuse[]


// tag::creating-http-connection[]

[id='creating-http-connection-in-fuse_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Creating HTTP connection to CRUD App

To send messages to the Spring Boot app, you create a connection in Red Hat Fuse Online.


. Log in to the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console.

. Select *Connections* from the left hand menu.

. Select the *Create Connection* button to start the *Create Connection* wizard.

. When prompted with *Select Connector*, select *Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD Connector*.

. When prompted with *Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD Configuration*, click *Next*.

. When prompted with *Add Connection Details*:
.. Enter the following in the *Connection Name* field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD App
----
.. Click *Create*.


[type=verification]
Check the *Connections* screen of the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console to make sure the new connection exists.

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.


// end::creating-http-connection[]



[time=5]
[id='creating-an-integration']
== Creating an integration
:context: creating-an-integration

// end::task-creating-fuse-integration[]

[id='creating-fuse-integration_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Creating an integration

To use the Fuse connections, you create an integration in Red Hat Fuse Online.

. Select *Integrations* from the left hand menu.

. Select the *Create Integration* button to start the *Create Integration* wizard.

. Choose *Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} Messaging App* as the *Start Connection*.

. When prompted to *Choose an Action*, select *Subscribe for messages*.

. When prompted for a *Destination Name*, enter:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
---- 
work-queue/requests
----

. Choose *Queue* as the *Destination Type* and click *Next*.

. When prompted to *Specify Output Data Type*:
.. Select *JSON Schema* as the type.
.. Enter the following in the *Definition* field:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----
{
	"$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-04/schema#",
	"type": "object",
	"properties": {
		"type": {
			"type": "string"
		}
	}
}
----
.. Click *Done*.

. Choose *Walkthrough {walkthrough-id} CRUD App* as the *Finish Connection*.

. When prompted to *Choose an Action*, select *Create a fruit*.

. When prompted to *Add to Integration*, select *Add a Step*.

. Select *Data Mapper* to map source and target fields in the corresponding JSON schemas:
.. Click and drag *type* from the *Source* column to *body/name* in the *Target* column.
.. Click *Done* to navigate back to the Integration screen.

. Click *Publish*.
. When prompted, enter a name, for example:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----  
Walkthrough {walkthrough-id}
----

[type=verification]
Check the *Integrations* screen of the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console to make sure the new connection exists.

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.
// end::task-creating-fuse-integration[]



[time=5]
[id='using-the-application-integration']
== Using the application integration
:context: using-the-application-integration

// tag::task-using-integration[]
[id='using-integration_{context}']
[.integr8ly-docs-header]
=== Using the application integration

After setting up the integration between the Node.js and Spring Boot applications, we can use the integration to create a new fruit for the grocery inventory application.

:node-url: http://frontend-node-app.apps.city.openshiftworkshop.com/
:spring-url: http://spring-boot-rest-http-crud-spring-app.apps.city.openshiftworkshop.com/
:fuse-url: https://eval.apps.city.openshiftworkshop.com/

. Navigate to the link:http://{node-js-url}[Node.js app, window="_blank"].

. Enter a value for *Fruit*, for example:
+
----  
Pineapple
----

. Click *Send Request*.

. Navigate to the link:http://{spring-boot-url}[Spring Boot app, window="_blank"].

. Check that the entry from the Node.js app is displayed.


[type=verification]
****
View the activity log:

. Log in to the link:{fuse-url}[Red Hat Fuse Online, window="_blank"] console.
. Select *Integrations* from the left hand menu.
. Select your integration.
. Select the *Activity* tab.
. Expand the log entry to display the steps performed.
****

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above.  If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.


// end::task-using-integration[]
